RFC: Dev Docs (#30274)
microsoft/fluentui: rfcs/react-components/components/dev-docs.md

As a new developer to the Fluent repo, but long time Fluent consumer and fan, the supporting documentation has been a rough experience. This has forced me to randomize other members of the team which slows us both down. This RFC seeks to lay out a plan to modernize the Fluent dev docs.

## Current issues:

- Mixture of v6, 7, 8 and 9 specific docs.
- Docs seemed to have stopped being updated in the early days of v9 development.
- Mixture of process, set up, and reference docs.
- RFC’s seem to be a large part of the Fluent process now, but there’s no clear way for an outsider to observe or contribute to them.
- Use of Github’s wiki isn't the best technical solution.

## Goals of the new system:

- Be more accessible to developers in their work flow.

> - Help developers onboard faster without distracting core team members.

Reviewer: Do we want to throw any target metrics or times here? In the MADS repo we had the 10 minute goal from pulling the repo to being product even for new developers. Not saying we should use that goal but having that kind of a target for what we're doing might be a good idea.

Author: Good callout. But I do want to be cautious about scope creep, so leaving out discussion of how to improve our dev infrastructure from this RFC.

Reviewer: Yah it was more about the spirit of it...so something like "as a new Fluent developer I can answer questions around making a new component in 2 minutes with existing docs" or something (don't copy that just threw it out there :D)

- Provide technical documentation and guides for common patterns and practices that do not make sense to live in examples or code samples.
- Focus attention on areas under active development (web and react components)

## Non-Goals

> - Provide an ongoing communications platform for project statuses, road maps and planning.

Reviewer 2: FYI, the charting team has started using docusaurus to host our technical documents. We coudn't find an easy way to publish our guides and dev docs in the existing fluent repo or the fluent docsite. 
https://microsoft.github.io/fluentui-charting-contrib/

Author: Would a dedicated directory in the __docs__  help you all?

Reviewer 2: More than the docs folder structuring we need a way for users to be able to easily navigate through the docs, search for specific terms, and interact/contribute with the docs content.

Author: Awesome - these are great requirements. Thanks so much for the feedback and contributions Atishay!

Author: Following up on this one:

Our goals for this effort are scope to contribution to the repo. We're going to stop short of trying to support outward or process related communication. Contributors are always encouraged to engage with PRs as they see fit.

- Provide documentation relevant to other disciplines outside engineering.
- Provide documentation around consuming the library. These should live externally in the Storybook.
- Provide documentation around filing bugs or how to engage with the team.

> ## Proposed changes

Reviewer: What about process for documentation? Who should own documents for specific things? IMHO it's a good idea to update the documentation after you make a change that impacts them. Ex: we update our build or scaffolding process, that should include not just the changes but any documentation to explain the new normal.

Author: Good callout! We'll add some 'how to' docs along the way.

### Place all dev documents in markdown files in a `__docs__` folder at the root of the repo.

This would completely replace the wiki. There are two main advantages to this method:

- Developers won’t have to context switch to access the documents.
- Searching capabilities in VSCode tend to by wildly superior to those in Github.

### Establish a new folder and docs structure:

`__docs__`

- rfcs

>   - \_rfc-process.md // Explainer on what RFCs are, are not and how they work.

Reviewer: It would be good to go deeper here. To me, RFCs are good for gathering information/feedback or using as a proposal. I am not sure this is a good format for what we currently do so I'd like to see if everyone else would like to draw that line. Once something is approved and our current POR, move it out of RFC and into a durable document.

Author: nice - yeah, I like the idea of an 'accepted' RFC folder.

  - \_rfc-template.md // Starting point.
  - some-historical-rfc.md
  - // All the historical RFCs.

- react-v9
  - contributing
    - dev-env.md // setting up your development environment for the first time
    - dev-workflow.md // general end to end guidance of contributing a fix/feature/component end to end.
    - command-cheat-sheet.md // simple table of all the commands we use daily.
    - common-snags.md // a place to accumulate docs around common errors that we can link to.
    - coding-style.md // any coding style guidelines not covered by the linter
- internal_patterns
  - // docs that explain patterns used internally in our components
  - // can also include best practices recommendations
- testing
  - // docs that explain current testing processes, minimum bars, and helpful tips and tricks to spin up.
- browser-support-matrix.md
- ownership.md
- stable-packages.md // a doc describing our approach to breaking changes, what qualifies, and how we make them
- preview-packages.md // a doc explaining what a preview package is and how to create them

web-components
// Chat with Chris Holt here

react-v8-and-below

> // Copy paste the exact same content from the current wiki.

Reviewer: Do we want to copy this over or just point to a deprecated link to the wiki? (If that's a thing GitHub supports). Mostly just curious if we have the time/resources to move all that content over.

Author: My intent was to just copy paste it over. 

I don't want to devote too many cycles to tidying it, but felt there might be some value in keeping it around.

But I do want to fully remove the wiki though as having it up will cause further confusion.

Reviewer 3: I think doing it the other way around would be helpful, copy over and then just leave one wiki article specifying that all dev-related documentation has moved into this folder.

Reviewer 2: FYI, we have created a docusaurus based documentation site for the charting library. See here - https://microsoft.github.io/fluentui-charting-contrib/
This is inline with the practice followed by other open source projects in Mocrosoft and outside.

- Focus attention on areas under active development (web and react components)

## Non-Goals

- Provide an ongoing communications platform for project statuses, road maps and planning.
- Provide documentation relevant to other disciplines outside engineering.
- Provide documentation around consuming the library. These should live externally in the Storybook.
- Provide documentation around filing bugs or how to engage with the team.

## Current issues:

- Mixture of v6, 7, 8 and 9 specific docs.
- Docs seemed to have stopped being updated in the early days of v9 development.
- Mixture of process, set up, and reference docs.
- RFC’s seem to be a large part of the Fluent process now, but there’s no clear way for an outsider to observe or contribute to them.
- Use of Github’s wiki isn't the best technical solution.

## Proposed changes

### Place all dev documents in markdown files in a `__docs__` folder at the root of the repo.

This would completely replace the wiki. There are two main advantages to this method:

- Developers won’t have to context switch to access the documents.
- Searching capabilities in VSCode tend to by wildly superior to those in Github.

> 

Reviewer 3: I'd add one more:

```suggestion
- Allows for all dev document changes to go through proper review via PR review process.
```

### Establish a new folder and docs structure:

`__docs__`

- rfcs

  - \_rfc-process.md // Explainer on what RFCs are, are not and how they work.
  - \_rfc-template.md // Starting point.
  - some-historical-rfc.md
  - // All the historical RFCs.

- react-v9
  - contributing
    - dev-env.md // setting up your development environment for the first time
    - dev-workflow.md // general end to end guidance of contributing a fix/feature/component end to end.
    - command-cheat-sheet.md // simple table of all the commands we use daily.
    - common-snags.md // a place to accumulate docs around common errors that we can link to.
    - coding-style.md // any coding style guidelines not covered by the linter
- internal_patterns
  - // docs that explain patterns used internally in our components
  - // can also include best practices recommendations
- testing
  - // docs that explain current testing processes, minimum bars, and helpful tips and tricks to spin up.
- browser-support-matrix.md
- stable-packages.md // a doc describing our approach to breaking changes, what qualifies, and how we make them

> - preview-packages.md // a doc explaining what a preview package is and how to create them

Reviewer 3: Probably need to add one more for compat packages

```suggestion
- compat-packages.md // a doc explaining what a compat package is, how to create them, and the differences in maintenance when compared to stable packages
```

## Goals of the new system:

- Be more accessible to developers in their work flow.
- Help developers onboard faster without distracting core team members.
- Provide technical documentation and guides for common patterns and practices that do not make sense to live in examples or code samples.
- Focus attention on areas under active development (web and react components)

## Non-Goals

- Provide an ongoing communications platform for project statuses, road maps and planning.
- Provide documentation relevant to other disciplines outside engineering.
- Provide documentation around consuming the library. These should live externally in the Storybook.
- Provide documentation around filing bugs or how to engage with the team.

## Current issues:

- Mixture of v6, 7, 8 and 9 specific docs.
- Docs seemed to have stopped being updated in the early days of v9 development.
- Mixture of process, set up, and reference docs.
- RFC’s seem to be a large part of the Fluent process now, but there’s no clear way for an outsider to observe or contribute to them.
- Use of Github’s wiki isn't the best technical solution.

## Proposed changes

> ### Place all dev documents in markdown files in a `__docs__` folder at the root of the repo.

Reviewer 4: `__docs__` seems like something obscure, intended to be used by a machine, it would be good to go with human accessible naming, `documentation/`

Author: My intent with the underscores was that it keeps it at the very top of the file list :-)

Author: maybe we can compromise and call it __documentation__ ?

Author: Landed on `docs`

> ### Place all dev documents in markdown files in a `__docs__` folder at the root of the repo.

Reviewer 5: Let's also follow the microsoft OSS pattern and use a `CONTRIBUTING.md` in the root of our repo. We can use relative links in the markdown file to whatever folder we choose for other documentation files

Author: Yep, I like this a lot - we'll hold off on adding it until all the docs we want it to point to are in place.
